# Run_analysis.R

This script downloads a data set generated by testing subject activity using a Samsung smartphone. It then combines the test and training data sets into a single data frame and returns a set of data corresponding only to the mean and the standard deviation of each of the variables measured. In the second portion of the script, a second data set is generated from the tidy dataset which contains the mean of each variable measured grouped by the activity and subject

## Workflow

- load necessary libraries into R to facilitate final data processing. In this case, the package dplyr was used for the final data summary.

- check for the existence of a data directory in the present working directory and create one if it does not exist.

- Download the data from the online source and unzip the file

- initialize a data frame for storing the activity description which will be used to provide a more desciptive set of variables than is provided in the Y-train.txt and y_test.txt files.

- read the test data files into R as well as other files that will be needed to add headers and activity descriptions to the final tidy data set. This also includes the subject_train and subject_test files which provide a number code for each of the subjects in the study.

- Once all the relevant data has been red into R, combine the training and test datasets. In this step, combined data frames of the subjects and activity are also created

- Create the descriptive labels for the training &test data sets activity

- Add the header data provided by the features.txt file so that the variables are named correctly

- Extract only the columns in the data that contain the mean and the standard deviation of every measurement, append the activity description to the new clean data set.


### Section 2 of the code creates a tidy dataset for the average of each variable grouped by subject and activity

- Clean up the temporary variables created as part of the process of creating the clean data set

- output the tidy data sets to space delimited text files for sharing
